## Run a nodeapp using configmaps as sourcecode

This time, we will make use of configmaps as volumes in deployments.

Try to make use of the OC CLI to generate the manifest files to then later create the resources by using the command `oc apply`. Tip: you can make use of the flags `--dry-run server` and `-o yaml` to show the resulting manifest file without creating the resource.

**Objectives:**

Create the code to:

- Create a new configmap called `node-source-code` with two keys:
    - `package.json` as the name of the key. The value should be the contents of this file https://github.com/musghost/belastingdienst/blob/main/sources/node-app/package.json
    - `server.js` as the name of the key. The value should be the contents of this file https://github.com/musghost/belastingdienst/blob/main/sources/node-app/server.js
    - You can make use of the examples listed here to create the configmap using the CLI https://jamesdefabia.github.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl/kubectl_create_configmap/
- Create a new Deployment with the following specifications:
    - Use the image `registry.access.redhat.com/ubi8/nodejs-16`
    - Mount the configmap as Volume in the path `/var/node-source/`. Check how to do it here https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/#populate-a-volume-with-data-stored-in-a-configmap
    - Set the working directory as `/var/node-source/`
    - Add a multiline command to run the nodeapp with the following commands:
        - `npm install`
        - `node server.js`
    - Configure the container port as `8080`.
- Create a new Service to expose the Deployment in the Cluster
- Create a new Route to expose the Service outside the Cluster
- Group these configuration files in a kustomization file.

## Generate the BuildConfig and Imagestream to run the node application

The entrypoint is nice but npm packages should be already present in the container image. To do that we will generate a new container image by using a BuildConfig.

Generate a new container image for the node application using the source code in the path `sources/node-app`.

**Objectives:**

- Create a new ImageStream called `node-app`.
- Create a new BuildConfig with the following specs:
    - The git source is the repo https://github.com/musghost/belastingdienst/
    - The output should be the new created ImageStream 
- Test if the image works by running a deployment that uses the generated image. You might need this guide to achieve it https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/openshift_images/using-imagestreams-with-kube-resources.html
- Enable triggering automatically a new updated deployment for changes on the imagestream. You might need this guide https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/openshift_images/triggering-updates-on-imagestream-changes.html

