## Create a new deployment pulling an image from a private registry

**Objectives:**

- Create a new pull secret named `registry-auth` using the following details:
    - Registry: `registry.digitalocean.com`
    - Username: `<GIVEN BY THE TRAINER>`
    - Password: `<GIVEN BY THE TRAINER>`
    - How to create the secret with the CLI https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/#create-a-secret-by-providing-credentials-on-the-command-line
- Create a new deployment with the folling specifications:
    - 1 replica
    - Use the image `registry.digitalocean.com/openshiftcourse/mysql:latest`
    - Set the following environment variables:
        - `MYSQL_DATABASE`: `blogdb`
        - `MYSQL_USER`: `trainee`
        - `MYSQL_PASSWORD`: `difficultpwd123`
        - `MYSQL_RANDOM_ROOT_PASSWORD`: `'1'`
    - Expose the port 3306
    - Add an emptyDir volume in `/var/lib/mysql`
        - https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir-configuration-example
- Access to the database pod/container and create a dummy mysql table to check if the database indeed is working.

## Improve the security of the previous deployment by using a secret to store the mysql credentials

One of the problems with the previous deployment is that secrets are defined in the deployment specification.
One way to solve this issue is using a resource called Secret.

**Objectives:**

- Create a new secret called `db-credentials` with the following key values (the previously used environment variables):
    - `MYSQL_DATABASE`: `blogdb`
    - `MYSQL_USER`: `trainee`
    - `MYSQL_PASSWORD`: `difficultpwd123`
    - The documentation to do it can be found here: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configmap-secret/managing-secret-using-kubectl/#use-raw-data
- Update the database deployment by replacing the value with the corresponding secret key
    - The documentation to do it can be found here: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/distribute-credentials-secure/#define-a-container-environment-variable-with-data-from-a-single-secret


## Improve the reliability of the data by adding a volume - Part I

The most important issue of this database implementation is the ephimeral filesystem of the deployment. If the pod or deployment is removed then all the data is gone... We need to preserve the state of the database by including a volume.

First, we need to create a Proof of Concept (POC) to understand how it works.

**Objectives:**

- Create a new PersistentVolumeClaim called `volume-poc` with 1Gb of data
- Make use of this PersistentVolumeClaim in a pod with the folling specs:
    - Use the image: `registry.access.redhat.com/ubi8/ubi`
    - Use the command sleep 3600 as entrypoint
    - Add a volume to the pod by referencing the PersistentVolumeClain `volume-poc`:
        - Mount the volume in the directory `/mountedvol`
        - Here you can check how to do it https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-persistent-volume-storage/#create-a-pod
    - **keep the manifest file somewhere (in VS Code, local file, etc) before creating the pod, then you won't loose this information**
- Access to the pod and generate some data in the mounted volume:
    - Inside the directory `/mountedvol` create a file called `dummyfile`
    - Inside the directory `/mountedvol` create a directory called `mynewdir`
- Remove the pod and recreate it again with the same specs.
- Check the contents of the directory `/mountedvol`.

Now you know how volumes work! **Remove the pod and the previously created PersistentVolumeClaim.**

## Improve the reliability of the data by adding a volume - Part II

**Objectives:**

- Create a new PersistentVolumeClaim called `database`
- Replace the emptyDir volume from the deployment database with the PersistentVolumeClaim `database`.
- Once the pod is up and running with the new mounted volume create a table in the database and add some records:

```
CREATE TABLE Person (
  name VARCHAR(255),
  country VARCHAR(255),
  age INT
);

# Insert some records
INSERT INTO Person (name, country, age)
VALUES
    ('John', 'Netherlands', 42),
    ('Paul', 'Germany', 17),
    ('Mark', 'Italy', 21),
    ('Linda', 'United States', 34);
```

- Scale the deployment to 0 and then to 1 again *if you scale it to more than one, the rest of the pods won't run because the AccessMode of the volume is most likely ReadWriteOnce, it means that the volume cannot be mounted in multiple nodes at the same time.*.
- Once the new pod is up and running then check if the table and records still exist.

## Create a wordpress blog  - Part I

Now you have a reliable database up and running, that is a requirement to run a WordPress application.

You can make use of the wordpress image, but it has a little problem, by default it uses the port 80 to listen to connections. That is prohibited in Openshift since it is a privileged port.

Therefore, you will need to create a new custom image that replaces the port 80 by 8080.

**Objectives:**

- Create a new ImageStream called `wordpress`
- Create a new BuildConfig with the following specifications:
    - Use this repository as source https://github.com/musghost/belastingdienst.git
    - The required Dockerfile to create the new wordpress image is located in `sources/wordpress`.
    - The output of should be the ImageStream `wordpress`
- Make sure that the `builder`` Service Account makes reference to the pull secret you created few minutes ago, then you will be able to make use of the secret to pull the image from the private registry.

## Create a wordpress blog  - Part II

The image now is ready to be used. It is time to create the new deployment.

**Objectives:**


- Create a new deployment with the following specifications:
    - Use the ImageStream `wordpress` as image. Don't forget to use image lookup: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/openshift_images/using-imagestreams-with-kube-resources.html
    - Set 1 replica
    - Add an emptyDir volume in `/var/www/html`
        - https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir-configuration-example
    - Specify the port 8080
    - Specify these environment variables making use of your previous secret:
        - WORDPRESS_DB_USER
        - WORDPRESS_DB_PASSWORD
        - WORDPRESS_DB_NAME: exampledb
    - Set directly the value of this environment variable `WORDPRESS_DB_HOST`. Tip: the host is the name of the service to reach the database.
- Expose the Deployment with a new Service
- Expose the Service with a new Route
- Open the website
