## Setup a local k8s node

```bash
# Install kubectl
brew install kubectl

# Clean up previous machine
colima delete default

# Start a new vm with k8s
colima start --kubernetes
# done!
```

## Install an application declaratively with standard manifest files

```bash
# How to create resources with plain manifest files

cd sources/declarative/standard
kubectl apply -f all-resources.yaml

# Check that the new namespace is there
kubectl get ns | grep site

# Check that all pods are up and running
kubectl get pods -n site

```

## Create multiple environments based on a single base

Infrastructure systems usually have multiple environments, like development, staging and production.

This practice is about creating multiple environments

**Objectives:**

- Inside `sources/declarative/standard`:
    - Copy the file `all-resources.yaml` to recreate all the resources these namespaces: `dev`, `stg`, `prd`.
    - All resources (namespace, service, deployment and deployment) need to have the prefix `dev-`. Eg. The namespace should have the name `dev-site`, the configmap should have the name `stg-html` and so on.
    - After all these namespaces and resources are created, show the result to the trainer and then remove them all!


## Install an application declaratively with kustomization

```bash
# How to create resources with kustomization
cd sources/declarative/kustomization

# Print resulting templates but not applying them
kubectl kustomize .

# If you are happy with the result then apply the resources
kubectl apply -k .
```

## Create multiple environments with kustomization

**Objectives:**

- Inside `sources/declarative/kustomization`:
    - Move all contents of this directory, except `kustomization.yaml` to a new directory called based `base` and update the contents of `kustomization.yaml`.
    - Create three directories named as the environment: `dev`, `stg`, `prd`.
    - Create a kustomization file inside each directory.
    - All resources (namespace, service, deployment and deployment) need to have the prefix `dev-`. Eg. The namespace should have the name `dev-site`, the configmap should have the name `stg-html` and so on. Make use of `namePrefix` in each kustomization file. https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-kubernetes-objects/kustomization/
    - After all these namespaces and resources are created, show the result to the trainer and then remove them all!

## Install an application declaratively with helm

```bash
# How to create resources with helm
cd sources/declarative/helm

# Print resulting templates but not applying them
helm template .

# If you are happy with the result then apply the resources
helm install myrelease .
```

## Create multiple environments with helm

**Objectives:**

- Inside `sources/declarative/helm`:
    - Modify the chart to be able to include a new variable called `env` that can be prepend to each resource.
    - Create three additional yaml files, one for each environment. Eg. `values.dev.yaml`.
    - Install one release per environment.
    - After all these namespaces and resources are created, show the result to the trainer and then remove them all!

## Install ArgoCD

```bash
kubectl create ns argocd
helm repo add argo https://argoproj.github.io/argo-helm
helm install myargocd argo/argo-cd -n argocd --set=server.service.type=NodePort


kubectl get secret argocd-initial-admin-secret -o json | jq -r '.data.password' | base64 -d

# Open https://localhost:30080/ in your browser
# use admin as user and the initial-admin-secret as password
```

# Create three argocd applications

**Objectives:**

- Create one application per declarative tool:
    - One application for kustomization
    - One application for helm
