# Installation of Linux Virtual Machines and Docker

## Instructions

This guide will help you to run Linux Virtual Machines in your OSX computer.

After the installation you will be able to do the exercises.

In the following days and weeks we will make use of Linux, Docker and Kubernetes to practice multiple topics around these technologies.

Make sure you open and enable the privileges app before the execution of the following commands.

## Installation of brew

Brew is a package manager for OSX. With brew you can install multiple packages with the command line interface. Those packages come from multiple repositories.

Install brew by running the following command in the terminal:

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

After the command is done, at the end of the output, it will print a message similar to this:

```
Run this command in your terminal to add Homebrew to your $PATH

(eval "$(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)"') >> /Users/your_user
    eval "$(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)"
```
Then, copy commands from the output **not from this guide**, and execute them.

If everything went good, then you should be able to execute this command without any problem:

```bash
brew help
```

## Installation of colima

Colima is a tool for OSX to create Virtual Machines with Docker based on Lima.

Install Colima by running the following command:

```bash
brew install colima
```

If the installation went fine, you should be able to run the following command:

```bash
colima --help
```

## Installation of lima

Lima is a tool for OSX that helps us to create Linux Virtual Machines.

```bash
brew install lima
```

If the installation went fine, you should be able to run the following command:

```bash
lima --help
```

**Create an Ubuntu Virtual Machine**

Run the following command:

```bash
limactl start --name=default template://ubuntu-lts
```

It might show you a list of options, choose the first one `Proceed with the current configuration` by pressing Enter.

After the installation, you can run the command lima to access to the virtual machine.

# Exercises

This is a practice that will require you a bit of searching in google. Refrain from using chatgpt :)

For each exercise you will need to execute one or multiple commands. Within a plain-text file or a word document, take note of the necessary commands to solve the exercise. Group them by exercise if the solution requires the execution of multiple commands.

Do these exercises inside the recently created Virtual Machine

How do I know that I am inside the virtual achine?

After running the command lima then, the promt of the terminal should look like this, consider that my username is andres:

```
andres@lima-default:/Users/andres$
```

1. Update the packages of the system with apt.
2. Install the following packages:
  - vim
  - nginx
3. Enable and start the service nginx
4. Create a new user called `mrfoo` and assign him the follwing home directory `/var/app`
5. Become the user mrfoo and create an ssh-key

# Sources

- https://brew.sh/
- https://github.com/abiosoft/colima
- https://github.com/lima-vm/lima