## Run a Python application

Since you are a Linux System administrator, your team asks you to install/run a python application in a virtual machine, then it can be used by thousands of users in the organization.

**Objectives:**

1. Create the following files in the directory `/var/app/source/`

```
.
├── app.py
├── requirements.txt
├── templates
│   ├── greeting.html
│   └── index.html
└── test_app.py
```

2. Fill in the contents of the files.
3. Create a python virtual environment in `/var/app/` with the following command `python3 -m venv $PWD/venv`.
4. Activate the python virtual environment `source ./venv/bin/activate`.
4. Install the pip packages with the following command `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
5. Run the application with the following commands:

```bash
python app.py
```

6. Test if the application is indeed running by the following ways:
    1. Find the list of ports being opened in the VM.
    2. Use the `curl` command to perform a request to the web application.
    3. Open the application with the browser.
7. Create a `Readme.md` file to document in `/var/app/` with the following topics:
    1. Details about the application: where is the directory, purpose of each file and directories.
    2. How to run the application

## Run the application as non-root user

Nice, the application is up-and-running! But there is a problem with it. It is running with a user with high privileges.
The Security Team audits your system and recommends you to run the application with a new user.

**Objectives:**

1. Create a new user called `webapp` and assing `/var/app/` as home directory.
2. Create a new group in the Linux machine called `webappg` and add the user `webapp` to the group.
3. Modify the ownership of the directory `/var/app/` so that the `webappg` group can write and read files within the directory.
4. Create a bash script in `/var/app/` called `startup.sh` that the user `webapp` can execute to:
    1. Source the python virtual environment
    2. Run the python application
5. Run the python application as a background process with the `webapp` user.
6. Verify that the process of the python application is indeed owned by the `webapp` user.
7. Enhance the `Readme.md` documentation file to explain how to run the app with the non-root user.


## Start the application automatically after the VM reboots

Your Security Team is very happy now. But yesterday night the Virtual Machine was rebooted and now the application is not running anymore. The users are already creating tickets to report the incident and your team leader asks you to solve this issue, he says: "Please make sure that even if the Virtual Machine is rebooted, the application starts up automatically."

**Objectives:**

1. Enhance the bash script `/var/app/startup.sh` to print a message describing every step (command) of the script. The output should be something like this:
    ```
    Starting up the service
    Changing working directory
    Sourcing the virtual environment
    Running python app.py command
    ```
1. Create a new systemd service configuration file.
    1. If the service is not running, check the logs with `journalctl`.
2. Start the new systemd service.
3. Verify that the application is up and running.
4. Enable the new systemd service.
5. Reboot the machine and verify that the service is up and running.
6. Enhance the `Readme.md` documentation file to explain how to start, enable, disable the service and how to check the logs.

## Install another web application

Your organization decided to start a new project. They want to launch a new blog where they can post important information about the company for the public. They want to use WordPress because it is easy to use. Your team asks you to install it in the VM you manage.

**Objective:**

1. Install and configure WordPress by following this guide: https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/install-and-configure-wordpress#1-overview

## Setting up the Firewall

Your Security Team is again knocking the door. They ran an audit on all the machines again, but this time they found out that you are exposing a lot of ports. They kindly ask you setup a firewall and they explicitly say that only the ports 22 and 80 are allowed.

**Objective:**

1. Check if the package `ufw` is installed, install it otherwise.
2. Setup the default ufw policy.
3. Allow only the ports 80 and 22.
4. Verify that the firewall is indeed working:
    1. Run `python3 -m http.server 9000` and try to access to that port outside the machine.
5. Reboot the machine and verify that the firewall is still in place
6. Enhance the `Readme.md` documentation file to explain how to enable and disable the firewall and also how to allow ports.

## Setup a proxy

The Security Team is now happy that your VM is compliant with security rules. During your daily-standup meeting, your team tells you that they have received a lot of tickets reporting the same issue, the python web application is not reachable. You discuss this issue with your team and decide that in order to be still compliant with security and serve both the WordPress blog and the python application, you need to setup a Virtual Host (proxy), to serve the python webapp with Apache.

**Objective:**

1. Modify the apache `wordpress.conf` file in the `sites-available` directory from the apache config filesystem:
    1. Within the <VirtualHost> configuration node, add the following lines:

    ```
    ProxyPass /webapp/ http://127.0.0.1:5000/
    ProxyPassReverse /webapp/ http://127.0.0.1:5000/
    ```
2. Restart apache server
3. Verify if the application is working by accessing to `http://localhost/webapp/`
4. Enhance the `Readme.md` documentation file to explain how to configure the apache server to proxy pass the python app and how to check the new URL.


## Create a sysadmin user

There is a new team member in your team, his name is Paul. Paul is not a Linux experienced sysadmin as you are. Your team wants Paul to manually restart the python applications to perform some important tests. Then, your team asks you to create a new user for Paul in the Virtual Machine. Paul should **only** be able to restart the following services with sudo `webapp`.

**Objective:**

1. Create the new user for Paul
2. Add Paul as sudoer
3. Verify that Paul can restart the systemd unit webapp
4. Verify that Paul cannot restart other systemd units nor restart the VM neither install packages.
5. Create a new SSH key for paul to allow him to access to the VM via SSHD.
6. Enhance the `Readme.md` documentation file to explain how to create users and what permissions it has.
