## Allow a user to only connect via SSH

Paul is happy that he can contribute to the team. But again, the Security Team comes to give some advice. Users should only be able to access to the VMs with ssh and not with password. Now Paul needs to learn how to access via SSH with a key.

**Objectives:**

1. Modify the sshd configuration to only allow users to access with SSH keys and not with passwords.
2. Verify that the user Paul is only allowed to access with SSH keys and not with password.
3. Disable the access of root via SSH and also verify the configuration.

## Backup the database and recover from disaster

Last week, an application managed by another team suffered a downtime of 24 hours because a database was accidentally removed. Your team wants to be sure that this situation does not happen to the WordPress application. Therefore, they ask you to create a solution to backup the database and create a manual to recover it in case of disaster.

**Objectives:**

1. Create a new `mysql` user called `backups`. The user should be allowed to create backups of the wordpress database.
2. Create a new Linux user called `bkuser`. The user should only be able to run the `mysqldump` command.
3. Create a new script in the home directory of `bkuser` to create a new backup of the database and store it in `/var/db_backups/<DATE-TIME>.sql`.
    1. The `<DATE-TIME>` name should have the following format: `YYYY-MM-DD-HH:MM`.
4. After you create the backup, remove the wordpress database and restore it with your backup.
5. Create a manual in Markdown format to restore the database.

## Backup the database daily

After you mastered the art of the backup, the team realizes that having a script to run the backup is not enough, the backup should be done automatically every day.

**Objectives:**

1. Create a new cronjob to execute the backup script every day at 6am. Install the cronjob for the `bkuser`.

## Enable a new application

Your team is ready to onboard a new application and it was created with nodejs. Your team asks you to install it and run it as you already did with the python app.

**Objectives:**

1. Install nodejs in the VM.
2. Copy the files from the host OS to the VM with rsync to the directory `/var/nodeapp/code/`, eg `rsync -avz /path/to/nodejs/code/ user@IP_VM:/var/nodeapp/code/`.
3. Install the node modules with `npm` in the VM with `npm install` in the location where the `package.json` file is located.
4. Run the application with `node server.js`.
5. Verify that the application is running by
    1. Checking if the port is being listened by a process in the VM.
    2. Use the curl command to make a HTTP request to the app.
    3. Open it with the browser. Don't forget to open the port with the fiewwall.
6. Create a systemd service to manage the application.
7. Add a proxy pass configuration in the apache wordpress configuration to open the node app in `/nodeapp/`.

## PIMP my terminal

**Objectives:**

1. Install zsh.
2. Install oh-my-zsh https://ohmyz.sh/#install
3. Choose a new theme.